Project Backlog and Tickets.
Let's go through project demand in a similar fashion as we did for operations.
Now here is a new project process that you can use as a starter,
and then change it as you see fit for your own organization.
First, all the new tickets are coming into the ticket queue for new projects.
So these are new project requests.
These can be monitored each day, weekly or whatever makes sense.
Maybe projects are monitored daily or maybe weekly.
Then your team will perform triage on these new project tickets,
and if you can, like I mentioned before for operations,
a team is probably better than one person,
even more so for projects because projects could be
quite large and quite complicated.
So you're going to review the project tickets and you're going
to look at the attributes that you're collecting for projects to
see: Is it worthy to be a project?
Is there any information missing?
Do I have to go back and talk to the project requester?
Now some of these projects may not be applicable or may be out of
scope or belong in someone else's project queue.
So you're going to maybe reassign these.
Next, maybe there's a production issue.
You might say, "Wait a minute.
"If it's production, "we want to send that back to operations,
" and that may also be out of scope.
Lastly, they're going to be all what I call the normal backlog.
These are new tickets that come in that are worthy to be new
projects and to be considered in your backlog.
Now let's take a look at the definition of backlog
and what that means for project.
Now let's define in general what a project backlog means.
It's going to be the prioritized projects list containing short
descriptions of the project's purpose and outcomes.
Now for each project backlog item, we're going to capture key attributes,
key bits of information that will help you make good decisions.
So this is very similar to the operations backlog,
but the attributes themselves may be somewhat similar,
but they will also be different and we're going to talk
about those in a couple more slides.
Obviously, the items in this list will be chunkier,
likely larger level of efforts and time durations,
but at a macro level, no different again as the operations backlog.
So before we talk about those key attributes for projects,
let's review the project backlog assessment process first.
Here's an approach to performing ticket assessment once it
is in the normal backlog for project.
First, assess the backlog item.
So you or someone else or a small team will review each project.
Next, the assessor owns this project item.
Never have a ticket be unowned.
So until it is assigned or the project is launched to someone else,
it is owned by the assessor of this process.
Next, provide feedback to the ticket creator,
for example, by sending a confirmation email,
or a Slack message, for example,
or the ticketing system itself may have a feedback loop to the requester.
You want to inform your requester that the ticket is under review,
and please reply within a reasonable timeframe.
This way,
they know that their project request was received and it's
being looked at by you and your team.
This gives the requester a lot of comfort and they feel
like you're doing a good job before you've even started to
implement the project itself.
Next, you want to analyze the request.
Ask the requester questions, get clarifications,
or ask other Subject-Matter Experts for inputs.
Spend maybe only a couple hours on this.
Again, this isn't an operational one.
This is a ticket for a new project and it might require
many many more hours of analysis, but do the initial review of the ticket,
that is new project request, for a few hours if you can.
Next, update all the attributes that you can for this ticket item,
and each item will have attributes and information of value which
we will go over in detail in the next slide.
All right.
Now let's talk about those attributed fields that we want to add or attach
to this particular ticket request for a new project.
Again, based on the data that's been collected for this project,
you may have a lot of information already,
but you want to also capture the minimum amount of information
that's necessary to make good decisions.
Here is an example list of project attributes that
might work for you as a starter list.
Ultimately, the list of attributes is what you and your team needs to do the job.
These will be similar to operations, but on a larger and grander scale.
Okay, the first example, of course, an item number or a project number,
and it should be unique so we can always refer to the
project correctly and uniquely.
Next, a short description of the item,
something to ensure it's easy to read and easy to understand its intent.
For example, develop new health care application workflow system.
Next, a category.
I call it just project because maybe there's other categories like
operations and initiatives and things like that.
Next is level of effort, LOE.
Now it could be a bit chunky, like small,
medium, large, similar to scrum style, or it could be a number of hours.
For example, 4, 000 hours might be an estimate.
Maybe small is at least 400 hours.
Medium might be between 600 and 1, 000.
Large might be 1, 000, and maybe over 4, 000 is maybe jumbo.
You would come up with your own category of values and their
rationale and make it consistent across all projects.
There's due date and that's going to be provided by the customer about
when they would like that project to be completed.
Again, blockers, what items are blocking or impeding this item to be completed,
and in this case,
the example would be maybe we need to wait for a new VP to be hired
or something like that so we have good leadership.
Next is risks.
What risks might there be in this project,
such as lost revenue, things like that.
Again, a risk is something that might happen in the future to affect the project.
Next is the sponsor, such as a CEO.
Again, if the CEO was sponsoring this project,
it's probably something that'll go high in your list.
Next is urgency and impact.
High and significant impact on customer retention might be an example.
In other words, it's a high urgency and significant impact on customer retention.
That sounds very important.
Next,
the business domain of your company or corporation or your
target audience: health care supply chain.
Next, which is usually really important in projects, is the budget.
Let's say the budget here is at $1.
5 million and the return on investment, sometimes known as the ROI,
is nine months.
That means if I invest $1.
5 million,
I should see savings or increase revenue or things that go right to
the bottom line within the nine months of time.
Lastly, priority and window of opportunity.
Now for priority, I prefer using more of a macro tag,
like high, medium, and low,
and the window of opportunity is a timeframe within which the
project must be launched to be of success,
and in this example, if we don't launch this within six months,
we may lose the opportunity to have this be a success at all.
Now priority's a category that identifies the relative importance of this
project to others and priority is typically based on impact,
urgency, window of opportunity, and maybe even the sponsor.
Notice the attributes are all about collecting information to
provide you the data you need to prioritize,
assign resources and decide if or when to start the project.
None of the attributes have to do with actually working the projects.
That comes later, after it has been approved to be worked. Now let's move on to grooming for projects.